HCUP Documentation is here: 
+ /mnt/share/limited_use/LIMITED_USE/PROJECT_FOLDERS/USA/HCUP_SIDS/2006/HMS_2006
+ /mnt/share/limited_use/LIMITED_USE/PROJECT_FOLDERS/USA/HCUP_SIDS/2009/HMS_2009

Definitions:

A. **Geopolitical Boundaries.** Markets defined by geopolitical boundaries are based on counties, Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSA), Health Service Areas (HSA), and Core-Based Statistical Areas (CBSA).  The county for each hospital was obtained from the AHA 2006 Annual Survey Database.  HSA values were obtained from the 2007 Area Resource File (ARF).  The MSA values and CBSA codes were obtained from the HCUP 2006 Historical Urban/Rural – County (HURC) file.

B. **Fixed Radius.** Under the fixed radius market definition, every hospital is assigned a unique market area, which is the region enclosed by a circle centered on the hospital and defined by a 15-mile radius.  Hospital coordinates (i.e., longitude and latitude information) were obtained from the ArcView GIS.

C. **Variable Radius.** The variable radius market definition allows the radius to vary for each hospital so that it captures 75% of the hospital’s discharges (or 90%, depending on the market definition used).  For each hospital, we calculated the distance between the hospital and the patient ZIP Codes that it served, and ranked patient ZIP Codes according to the distance, in ascending order.  Patient ZIP Codes were obtained from the HCUP SID data.  We then aggregated the discharges in each ZIP Code until 75% (or 90%) of the hospital’s discharges were captured.  The distance between the hospital and the last ZIP Code to achieve this cutoff was the variable radius.  Under each market definition, the number of hospitals and the HHI are reported.

D. **Patient Flow.** The patient flow approach defines a hospital’s market as the collection of ZIP Codes that send a nontrivial amount of patients to the hospital, and that collectively account for 75%, 90%, or 95% of a hospital’s discharges.  For each patient ZIP Code, we first obtained the number of unique hospitals that served that ZIP Code and then ranked these hospitals in descending order of discharges in that ZIP Code.  Next, we aggregated the discharges of hospitals until 75% (or 90% or 95%) of the ZIP Code’s discharges were captured.  The corresponding number of hospitals needed to achieve this level was the market structure measure for the ZIP Code.  Third, for each hospital, we calculated the proportion of this hospital’s discharges that came from each ZIP Code.  That hospital’s measure was the sum of ZIP-level measures weighted by the proportion of the hospital’s discharges to that ZIP Code.  HHI did not vary materially by 75%, 90%, or 95% of a hospital’s discharges.  Therefore, although we report separate measures for N, we only report one HHI measure.
